---
layout: post
title: Gender Equality Agendas Promote Discrimination Against Men
date: 2025-06-11
---

Imagine being criticized for certain activities and attitudes performed by other peers of your demographic, without ever showing any signs of such behavior yourself. In much the same way as an innocent dove being caught within a hunter’s net intended to catch pesky crows, you have been marked as belonging to the troublesome group. Indeed, this is a clear hint of what men have been going through in the face of agendas aiming to investigate and implement a new kind of social discrimination under the figurehead of “gender equality”.

This brings us to say that gender equality actively promotes unjustified distinctions against men even though they are correct in standing their ground in being the dominant person in charge of family matters, while wanting to keep women safe at home instead of leading a harsh lifestyle that men are naturally accustomed to. And it is undoubtedly a misunderstanding to believe that men are fierce predators worth campaigning against.

**Men should be in charge of the family, without paying heed to the “gender equality” nonsense.** Scientific evidence shows that men and women have different bodies not just in terms of their sexual functions but also their intended way of life; men are supposed to be versatile and strong warriors who remain hard-working with a God-gifted supply of endurance, so that they can maintain the livelihood needed for their family to survive, whereas women’s bodies are more fragile and sensitive (Patton & Thibodeau, 2018, p. 276) — to be able to detect and understand emotions better and take on the role of nursing and nurturing for the young, as mentioned by Hrdy (2011)  and supporting and motivating the male breadwinner to keep on doing what brings basic utilities and monetary gains to the household. Adhering to social customs, women are considered to be caretakers of the home (family) in their own way whilst men indirectly ‘control’ the primary family decisions, e.g. to ensure an appropriate budget instead of letting their wives overspend extravagantly, as Daugherty and Sineriz (2024) found that women tend to be shopping for 80% of all cases, so they are more vulnerable to splurge on any unnecessary ornaments or luxury items that they personally want.

**Men and women should be treated differently as their apparent lifestyles vary a lot.** There have been numerous studies conducted throughout centuries about how men tend to lead a more volatile lifestyle, usually not caring too much about their health whilst women are more likely to keep an eye on their diet, exercising regularly, etc. such as a study conducted by Fiala and Brázdová (2000) that broadly highlights the range of habits and mentalities that people of either gender impose. Despite all the attempts to establish gender equality, the fact for their opposition still looms in the form of government statistics and survey data such as Statistics Canada (1995) reporting how even the causes and frequencies of deaths of male and female citizens are skewed in non-similar ways pertaining to the natural law that men and women cannot have true equality at all.

**Men are being treated as dangerous animals despite having no clear guaranteed causation of their wrongful behavior.** There have been cases of women attempting to inflict damage and torture upon their male partners as a way of expressing “gender equality” by forcing them to reverse their roles to let men feel what the women have felt. Such has been the case of an unlucky British young adult man who had been chosen by fate to fall prey to his now-imprisoned girlfriend who had been physically, emotionally abusing him for months. As was documented by the British Broadcasting Council (BBC) in a recent case (2019). This is one of many examples where men have actually been the victims of domestic violence unlike the general societal stereotype of boys always bullying the girls. Alongside that, a common social disease spreading across cultures and continents is that of a man being falsely accused of showing misconduct in the presence of someone of the opposite gender — mostly claims of assault, rape or ill treatment. A poor taxi driver had been accused of such a scenario by one of his female passengers on one typical-day-gone-bad due to the incident occurring; not only did he receive a severe dosage of trauma but also suffered at the hands of his marriage being dismissed (Jefford, 2024). It is certainly not what ‘gender equality’ promises nor tries to eliminate. And obviously not what gender equality agendas record, relying only on the female victimization spotlight.

Fairness and equality for both sexes never disfavour men, rather they are flawless ideas that are misunderstood by some of the people and hence, the fault lies with the misunderstanding of the people, not the idea of gender equality. While it may seem prudent to admire the idea of having both men and women employed and active in the workforce of a nation, co-operating and remaining neutral and balanced for either gender largely due to the reliance of the living expenses covered by the dual income, as well as the simple logic that the whole concept of ‘gender equality’ existing is due to the men misbehaving and denying rights to women…

…men are trying to actually protect women from the dangers of the world beyond the borders of their home. Beliefs regarding the non-discrimination of sexes often emphasize on its effect on women rather than equally detailing the effect on men too. As a result, it often gives the assumption that it seeks to empower women over the men instead of promoting a situation where both sides are treated impartially, giving rise to an anti-male mindset.

One of the most controversial governments of the world, that of Afghanistan, is infamous for having revoked a large number of women’s rights. But under a scholarly lens, it is easy to understand the perspectives of the lawmakers and what their true intentions were (Zeidan, 2020). If this was considered to be a situation between two siblings where one of them had previously been accused of harming the latter, think about what would happen if the previously attacked victim now equips the role of seeking revenge rather than forgiveness and other peaceful measures.

There has been an upsurge of unfair treatment and hatred towards innocent men due to the strong emphasis of the concepts of gender impartiality. Rather than promoting equality as it is meant to, it has created a new predicament which leaves the males in a vulnerable spot to be exploited, blackmailed or falsely accused due to misunderstanding of the concepts of ‘equality’ forged by the people.

**Suggestions:**
1. Proper, unbiased investigations need to be carried out with sufficient evidence before taking any action against any male employee alleged by women so that they are not unfairly blamed or punished.
2. Authorities must take appropriate measures to provide any necessary aid to men who suffer from trauma due to mental or physical abuse at the hands of women, battling against the stereotype of men always being the people at fault.
3. Promote fairness and equal opportunities in a manner that emphasizes both its importance for women as well as men rather than just favoring the women because they’re believed to be more likely at a disadvantage.

It would certainly be more respectful and comfortable for innocent men to live freely, unscathed from any tags of stigma attached to their faces or gender identity, just like setting all trapped doves to be set free from the net of crows again to roam freely without disturbing others, the way nature had designed them for.

## References

1.  Patton, K. T., & Thibodeau, G. A. (2018). Anthony's Textbook of Anatomy & Physiology-E-Book. Elsevier Health Sciences. p. 276. ISBN 9780323709309.
2.  Hrdy, S. B. (2011). Mothers and others: The evolutionary origins of mutual understanding. Harvard University Press. p. 91. ISBN 9780674060326.
3.  Daugherty, K., & Sineriz, M. (2024, August 7). Male vs. female spending statistics: Who spends more? FinanceBuzz. <https://financebuzz.com/male-vs-female-spending-statistics>
4.  Fiala, J., & Brázdová, Z. (2000). A comparison between the lifestyles of men and women--parents of school age children. Central European journal of public health, 8(2), pp. 94-98.
5.  Wilkins, K. (1995). Causes of death: How the sexes differ. Health Reports, 7(2), 29--37. Statistics Canada, Catalogue No. 82-003.
6.  Haydock, S. (2019, February 15). I stayed with my abusive girlfriend out of fear she would kill me. BBC Three. <https://www.bbc.com/bbcthree/article/81a8f303-5849-45b8-85a0-e8532b5d948b>
7.  Jefford, W. (2024, October 22). Man speaks of 'traumatic' false rape accusation. BBC News. <https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cwy9y8d0093o>
8. Zeidan, M. N. (2020, November). Women in Afghanistan. <https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.26391.19366>
